# Math Quiz
#### Video Demo:  [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eedySDb0Org](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eedySDb0Org)
#### Description:
Hello all. This is the project that I submitted for the final assignment of CS50x: making a project of your own. In this case, I made a math quiz game simply named "Math Quiz" &ndash; just like how it was written in the title. The project itself is made with pure HTML, CSS and JavaScript. As such, no frameworks (for example React, Vue, etc.) were used in this project, as I deemed them not really necessary (for now). Inside this repository you will find a bunch of files. Excluding this one (README.md), they are:

##### index.html
The HTML file containing the basic layout of the project. It uses styles.css for its formatting and script.js for it to actually work. It is made of three sections: the instructions, the questions and the results. The user can navigate them all in a way that it allows the user to go to each section effectively, and uses DOM manipulation done by script.js for this navigation to actually work.

* The instructions section is relatively simple: it features a set of instructions that the user should read before attempting the quiz and the button to start the quiz.
* The questions section is more complicated: it features the question the user is currently in, the expression for the question, a 10 seconds timer and four different answers (with only one being correct) for the expression itself. The mechanism behind this will be explained further in the script.js section. When the user clicks on the correct answer, it will give the user a hint that their answer is correct. Vice versa for the incorrect answer, and as an extra the user is shown the correct answer too. When the timer runs out, the correct answer is also shown.
* The results section shows the user's score and grade, as well as the comment for the grade. Not only that, but the amount of questions answered and the amount of correct and incorrect answers are also shown. The time needed to answer all questions and the average time needed for each question is also shown here. The user can retry the quiz by clicking the "Retry Quiz" button or they can go back to the initial section (the instructions one) by clicking the "Go Back" button.

##### styles.css
The CSS file containing the styling for the project. The color scheme used for the project is mainly blue, with different colors for various buttons depending on their usage. Correct answers will be colored as green here, and incorrect ones will be colored as red. Originally, I intended to apply responsive design to this project by using media queries, but then decided against it because that didn't go anywhere, and besides, I did this project alone with no collaborators at all. Perfecting a solo project to be usable in most kinds of devices, for me right now at least, seems kind of pushing it (especially since this is the second-to-last month). I'm kind of satisfied though, because at least I managed to make the project look nice in desktop (my target device).

##### script.js
The JavaScript file containing the script that runs the project. The first thing you'll see there is an array made out of pre-made questions that will be used in the quiz later. They weren't intended to be pre-made at first though; I intended to make an algorithm for them so the numbers would be random for each question. This plan was cancelled when I tried to evaluate each expression. Either I would have to use ```eval()``` and risk my security (though looking back, I could've used it because ```eval()``` would only be used to store the correct answer for each question), or I would have to create a function to evaluate expressions (which would consume more time and use more lines, not to mention the procedure to evaluate an expression was larger than I thought), so I ultimately settled on using pre-made ones.

When the DOM content is loaded, the navigation will be created using DOM methods. Both the play and the retry button will trigger ```startGame()``` when clicked, which will redirect the user to the questions screen and initialize all variables needed for the quiz to run perfectly. The ```startGame()``` function in turn will trigger ```makeQuestion()```. Here is a brief summary of what each function does, in order of appearance:

* ```randomNumber()``` &ndash; This helper function takes two arguments, ```min``` and ```max```, and it will return the user a random number between ```min``` and ```max``` (order not important, including both ```min``` and ```max```).
* ```renderTime()``` &ndash; This helper function takes an argument, ```time```, and it will return a formatted time based on how many seconds/minutes are spent.
* ```startGame()``` &ndash; This function takes no arguments and it will redirect the user to the questions section and initialize all variables needed for the quiz to run perfectly. In turn, this function will trigger ```makeQuestion()```.
* ```makeQuestion()``` &ndash; This function takes no arguments and it will format the question (based on the current question number) and add four different answers using a ```while``` loop. In turn, this function will trigger ```setTimer()``` with a ```time``` of 10 seconds.
* ```nextQuestion()``` &ndash; This function takes no arguments and depending on the amount of questions left, it will either set a 1 second timeout to increment the current question number by 1 and call ```makeQuestion()```, or set a 1 second timeout to redirect the user to the results screen and call both ```displayScore()``` and ```displayTime()```.
* ```makeExpression()``` &ndash; This function takes three arguments, ```operation```, ```answer``` and ```difference```, and it will basically convert each question in the array of questions I've mentioned before into an object that can be used in ```makeQuestion()``` and then return the object.
* ```setTimer()``` &ndash; This function takes an argument, ```time```, and it will set the timer so that the correct answer will be automatically revealed (via ```showAnswer()```) in ```time``` seconds.
* ```checkAnswer()``` &ndash; This function takes an argument, ```answer```, and it will check if the answer is correct or not.
* ```showAnswer()``` &ndash; This function takes no arguments and it will show the correct answer, as well as make all answers unclickable and trigger ```nextQuestion()```.
* ```gradeScore()``` &ndash; This function takes no arguments and it will return the score, grade and comment for the score of the user in an object. The score is determined by the amount of correct answers multiplied by 4.
* ```displayScore()``` &ndash; This function takes no arguments and it will display the score, grade and comment for the score of the user.
* ```displayTime()``` &ndash; This function takes no arguments and it will display the user's overall and average times (after being formatted with ```renderTime()```).

This file was included as a module in index.html because I intended to break it into smaller files, but I ended up being unable to do it because it made things more complicated than before. Additionally, it was able to run without being too big for a single file, so I decided breaking it into smaller files wouldn't be very useful.

##### favicon.ico
The icon of the project itself. It looks like a box separated into four smaller ones, being green, red, yellow and blue in a clockwise order and starting from top-left (making it look almost identical to the Windows icon with the colors red and green being swapped). There are also four symbols, one for each box: addition sign (+) in the green box, subtraction sign (-) in the red box, division sign (&div;) in the yellow box and multiplication sign (&times;) in the blue box, once again being in a clockwise order. This represents the mathematical operators present in the questions presented by Math Quiz, and as such there are no operations like exponentiation and others.

Overall, I must say I'm pretty proud of what I've made. Even though there are things that can be done better here and there, it's good enough for me if it can run well without any error. Thank you for reading. This was CS50x!
